dev/README.md, before:

##  Welcome!

You have found the chef-server self-contained development environment.
It aims to get you up and hacking on chef-server components in a
safe, pain-free manner.

In short it will create a simple Vagrant VM, while still allowing you to do
your development from the comfort of your own host. Changes to make are
loaded immediately into the running service (for erlang projects with
sync support) or otherwise made available on the guest VM.

## Quick Start

This assumes familiarity with the components of chef-server and that you
want to run oc\_erchef off of your local machine.

Requirements:

* VirtualBox 4.3+
* Vagrant 1.7+
* At least one recent Chef Server 12.0.9+ debian package download,
  which you can get using this command (if you have the most recent chefdk) `mixlib-install download chef-server -p ubuntu -a x86_64 -l 14`. dvm will then look for the package in either the Downloads dir
  on your machine or the omnibus/pkg directory under the chef-server repo
  where dvm is running. You can also set the INSTALLER environment variable
  to tell dvm where to find the package if it is not in one of those locations.
* A text editor on your machine.
* Any time you're doing something with 'dvm' on the VM, make sure
  you've acquired root by using `sudo -i`. Otherwise dvm won't be in your
  path.

First, add the following configuration to your `/etc/hosts` file:

    192.168.33.100 api.chef-server.dev manage.chef-server.dev
    192.168.33.150 database.chef-server.dev
    192.168.33.151 backend.chef-server.dev
    192.168.33.152 ldap.chef-server.dev
    192.168.33.153 custom.chef-server.dev
    192.168.33.155 reportingdb.chef-server.dev
    192.168.33.156 elasticsearch.chef-server.dev
    192.168.33.157 solr.chef-server.dev

Next, bring up the VMs!

    cd dev
    vagrant up
    ./sync

In a separate terminal session/pane/window:

    vagrant ssh
    sudo -i
    dvm quickstart oc_erchef

To use your running Chef Server through standard commands such as knife,
you'll need to create an organisation and a user, and then create a
knife config on your workstation.

    vagrant ssh
    sudo -i
    # create a user to access chef with
    cinc-server-ctl user-create -f /tmp/admin.pem admin Admin User admin@example.com password
    # create an organization
    cinc-server-ctl org-create -f /tmp/test-validator.pem test Test
    # associate the user with the organization
    cinc-server-ctl org-user-add test admin

Now on your workstation, create `.chef/knife.rb` in the root of your
chef-server checkout, with the following:

    current_dir = File.dirname(__FILE__)
	log_level                :info
	log_location             STDOUT
	node_name                "admin"
	client_key               "#{current_dir}/admin.pem"
	chef_server_url          "https://api.chef-server.dev/organizations/test"

Then place `/tmp/admin.pem` from the vagrant node into the `.chef` directory.

### What can I do?

Start editing erchef files, pedant files, cookbooks, upgrade definitions,
and/or cinc-server-ctl commands.

* Changes to erchef erlang files will be picked up and recompiled
  automatically shortly after you save them on the host.
* To test cookbook changes, load them with `dvm load omnibus private-chef-cookbooks`.
  Then run `cinc-server-ctl reconfigure` in the VM to pick up the changes.
* upgrades and cinc-server-ctl command changes/additions will be
  available very quickly after you save them on the host (< 5 seconds)
* To run pedant tests in the VM, use `dvm run oc-chef-pedant`.  You can also provide the
  usual flags, eg `dvm run oc-chef-pedant --focus-/skip-X`, `--smoke`, `--all`, etc.

`dvm` has support for many projects including bifrost and bookshelf.  Use `dvm list`
to see them all.

While all host changes are replicated to the dev vm only erlang projects support
automatic hot compile and reload of changed modules on the host. To whatever
extent supported by the language, we'll be adding the same for ruby service-based projects.

### Dependency Loading

If you find that you need to change an erlang project
dependency, dvm simplifies that too. For example, let's say we want to
modify `chef_authn` and pull it into the running erchef instance:

    # From in the vm. assumes sudo -i
    dvm load oc_erchef chef_authn

This will  clone `chef_authn` onto your host[1], where you can begin
editing it. It will link it into the project deps directory and hot-load
it into the running VM[2].  This is available for nearly all dependencies
declared in a project's rebar.config.

[1] NOTE: Presently this will clone into chef-server directory. We will be
 fixing this, it's a side effect of the recent project merge.
[2] There is currently a limitation here in that the owning project must
be running to pick up the changes. We will be fixing that shortly.

For a list of dependencies available for loading and their current
status, use `dvm list $PROJECTNAME`.  Any dependency that is not a
system library and declared in a project's app.src is typically
available.

Ruby project dependency loading support coming soon.

### Installing Chef Server Plugins

If you wish to install Chef Server plugins with pre-downloaded or pre-built
binaries, set the corresponding attribute in your `config.yml` to true. 
The corresponding package needs to be either in `~/Downloads`, `../omnibus/pkg`,
or you can set an environment variable with the path to the package.

| Plugin Name | config.yml Attribute | Environment Variable |
| ------ | -------------------- | -------------------- |
| Chef Management Console | `chef-manage` | `MANAGE_PKG` |
| Push Jobs Server | `push-jobs-server` | `PUSH_JOBS_PKG` |
| Chef Reporting | `reporting` | `REPORTING_PKG` |

For example, this `config.yml` file created in the current directory would enable the Management console.

```
vm:
  plugins:
    chef-manage: true
```

### Configuring LDAP

If you wish to setup your Chef Server to use an external LDAP service, please set
`ldap start` to true in your config.yml. This LDAP server comes pre-configured
with two users: `child` and `douglas`. You can add more by adding more LDIF files
in the ldap-data directory of the provisioning cookbook.

_Note: The password should be the same as the username (for simplicity)_

### Setting up Chef Backend

If you wish to setup a development environment that is a 1 frontend, 1 backend
HA topology, set `chef-backend start` to true in your config.yml. _Warning: Chef Backend
is not compatible with the Push Jobs Server, Chef Reporting or LDAP DVM configurations._

### Installer Options

If you have a package at a non-default location (defaults are `../omnibus/pkg` and this directory),
you can specify it with the $INSTALLER variable. Also, you can automate the selection of which build
to use with $AUTOPACKAGE. So, to automatically select a custom package, set $INSTALLER to it's path
and $AUTOPACKAGE to 1.

### Multiple vms

If you are fortunate enough to have a host beefy enough to run
multiple VMs you will hit a snag; the 'chef-server' VM name is
global, and there can only be one. To use a different name, set the
environment variable export VAGRANT\_MACHINE\_VARIANT to add a suffix
to the vm names.

Example:
```
export VAGRANT_MACHINE_VARIANT='1'
```

### Coverage Analysis

Erlang has built-in support for code coverage analaysis which will
evaluate how often each line of code in erlang modules is hit.  To enable this
for a full project, use:

    dvm cover PROJECT enable

To enable it for a specific module, use:

    dvm cover PROJECT enable MODULE_NAME

To reset coverage stats for one or all modules:

    dvm cover PROJECT reset [MODULE_NAME]

To write coverage results to file (chef-server/testdata/coverage) use:

    dvm cover PROJECT report [MODULE_NAME]

And finally to disable coverage and re-enable automatic code sync:

    dvm cover PROJECT disable

Note that enabling cover will disable automatic compile and load of changed
modules, and disabling it will turn that back on.

## Troubleshooting

If you see something like the following, or ever have trouble with Vagrant while running `./sync`:

```
Files Transferred: 0
         Next Sync: 0 seconds...Bad port '-o'force_available_locales will default to true in the future. If you really want to skip validation of your locale you can set I18n.enforce_available_locales =rsync: connection unexpectedly closed (0 bytes received so far) [sender]
rsync error: error in rsync protocol data stream (code 12) at /SourceCache/rsync/rsync-45/rsync/io.c(453) [sender=2.6.9]

It appears that you've ran a newer version of Vagrant on this
computer. Unfortunately, newer versions of Vagrant change internal
directory layouts that cause older versions to break. This version
of Vagrant cannot properly run.

If you'd like to start from a clean state, please remove the
Vagrant state directory: /Users/tyler/.vagrant.d

Warning that this will remove all your boxes and potentially corrupt
existing Vagrant environments that were running based on the future
version.
```

It might be because ruby is picking up the ChefDK version of Vagrant instead of the one you normally use. For example:

```
which vagrant
/usr/local/bin/vagrant
++> irb
`irb(main):001:0> `which vagrant`
=> "/opt/chefdk/embedded/bin/vagrant\n"
```

You can tell `./sync` what Vagrant to use by setting `$VAGRANT_PATH` like so:

```
export VAGRANT_PATH=/usr/local/bin/vagrant
```

## Chef Mover

`chef-mover` does not currently support hot code loading. You can use it, but you have
to interact with it a bit differently. To start it, run:

```
dvm load chef-mover
dvm start chef-mover
```

This will start it up, but if you make any changes, you will need to reload the application, like:

```
dvm load chef-mover --force
dvm start chef-mover
```

Then the new code will be loaded.

## Not So Quick Start

TODO: details of components, terminology, etc. explore more dvm
commands?

## Test Data

[pending] If you want to load in test users, orgs, and nodes for testing outside
of pedant, you can:

`dvm populate`

TODO: Provide a canned set of test data in ec-backup form for more thorough tests?
##  dvm

At the heart of all this is the 'dvm' tool.  This tool
is used to manage the environment from within
the vm.  It must always be run as root, and to be sure that the
environment is correct, use `sudo -i` to become root to run it.

The intention here was to create a simple way to do all the
common activities:

* load a project
* run a test suite or subset thereof
* run a project and/or start a loaded service
* open a console to a running erlang app
* etop a running erlang app
* access the DB for a project

And a few other things.  You can just use `dvm` by itself and a list of
commands will be generated. You may also want to take a look in
defaults.yml, in which project definitions and other things are set up.

# Using external databases

To use an external database for Chef Server (and Reporting), create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:

```
vm:
  postgresql:
    start: true
    use-external: true
```

To use an external Azure database for Chef Server, create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:

```
vm:
  postgresql:
    start: true
    use-external: true
    use-azure:    true
    ip-azure:     <AZURE POSTGRESQL IP ADDRESS>
```

To use separate external databases for Chef Server and Chef Reporting, create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:

```
vm:
  postgresql:
    start: true
    use-external: true
  reporting_postgresql:
    start: true
    use-external: true
```
# Using elasticsearch 

To create a separate elasticsearch vm create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:
```
  elasticsearch:
    start: true
    # The major version family to use - either "2" or "5".
    version: "5"
```
# Using external solr 

To create a separate solr vm create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:
```
  external_solr:
    start: true
```

Commit message:

Replace chef-server with cinc-server

dev/README.md, after:

##  Welcome!

You have found the cinc-server self-contained development environment.
It aims to get you up and hacking on cinc-server components in a
safe, pain-free manner.

In short it will create a simple Vagrant VM, while still allowing you to do
your development from the comfort of your own host. Changes to make are
loaded immediately into the running service (for erlang projects with
sync support) or otherwise made available on the guest VM.

## Quick Start

This assumes familiarity with the components of cinc-server and that you
want to run oc\_erchef off of your local machine.

Requirements:

* VirtualBox 4.3+
* Vagrant 1.7+
* At least one recent Chef Server 12.0.9+ debian package download,
  which you can get using this command (if you have the most recent chefdk) `mixlib-install download cinc-server -p ubuntu -a x86_64 -l 14`. dvm will then look for the package in either the Downloads dir
  on your machine or the omnibus/pkg directory under the cinc-server repo
  where dvm is running. You can also set the INSTALLER environment variable
  to tell dvm where to find the package if it is not in one of those locations.
* A text editor on your machine.
* Any time you're doing something with 'dvm' on the VM, make sure
  you've acquired root by using `sudo -i`. Otherwise dvm won't be in your
  path.

First, add the following configuration to your `/etc/hosts` file:

    192.168.33.100 api.cinc-server.dev manage.cinc-server.dev
    192.168.33.150 database.cinc-server.dev
    192.168.33.151 backend.cinc-server.dev
    192.168.33.152 ldap.cinc-server.dev
    192.168.33.153 custom.cinc-server.dev
    192.168.33.155 reportingdb.cinc-server.dev
    192.168.33.156 elasticsearch.cinc-server.dev
    192.168.33.157 solr.cinc-server.dev

Next, bring up the VMs!

    cd dev
    vagrant up
    ./sync

In a separate terminal session/pane/window:

    vagrant ssh
    sudo -i
    dvm quickstart oc_erchef

To use your running Chef Server through standard commands such as knife,
you'll need to create an organisation and a user, and then create a
knife config on your workstation.

    vagrant ssh
    sudo -i
    # create a user to access chef with
    cinc-server-ctl user-create -f /tmp/admin.pem admin Admin User admin@example.com password
    # create an organization
    cinc-server-ctl org-create -f /tmp/test-validator.pem test Test
    # associate the user with the organization
    cinc-server-ctl org-user-add test admin

Now on your workstation, create `.chef/knife.rb` in the root of your
cinc-server checkout, with the following:

    current_dir = File.dirname(__FILE__)
	log_level                :info
	log_location             STDOUT
	node_name                "admin"
	client_key               "#{current_dir}/admin.pem"
	chef_server_url          "https://api.cinc-server.dev/organizations/test"

Then place `/tmp/admin.pem` from the vagrant node into the `.chef` directory.

### What can I do?

Start editing erchef files, pedant files, cookbooks, upgrade definitions,
and/or cinc-server-ctl commands.

* Changes to erchef erlang files will be picked up and recompiled
  automatically shortly after you save them on the host.
* To test cookbook changes, load them with `dvm load omnibus private-chef-cookbooks`.
  Then run `cinc-server-ctl reconfigure` in the VM to pick up the changes.
* upgrades and cinc-server-ctl command changes/additions will be
  available very quickly after you save them on the host (< 5 seconds)
* To run pedant tests in the VM, use `dvm run oc-chef-pedant`.  You can also provide the
  usual flags, eg `dvm run oc-chef-pedant --focus-/skip-X`, `--smoke`, `--all`, etc.

`dvm` has support for many projects including bifrost and bookshelf.  Use `dvm list`
to see them all.

While all host changes are replicated to the dev vm only erlang projects support
automatic hot compile and reload of changed modules on the host. To whatever
extent supported by the language, we'll be adding the same for ruby service-based projects.

### Dependency Loading

If you find that you need to change an erlang project
dependency, dvm simplifies that too. For example, let's say we want to
modify `chef_authn` and pull it into the running erchef instance:

    # From in the vm. assumes sudo -i
    dvm load oc_erchef chef_authn

This will  clone `chef_authn` onto your host[1], where you can begin
editing it. It will link it into the project deps directory and hot-load
it into the running VM[2].  This is available for nearly all dependencies
declared in a project's rebar.config.

[1] NOTE: Presently this will clone into cinc-server directory. We will be
 fixing this, it's a side effect of the recent project merge.
[2] There is currently a limitation here in that the owning project must
be running to pick up the changes. We will be fixing that shortly.

For a list of dependencies available for loading and their current
status, use `dvm list $PROJECTNAME`.  Any dependency that is not a
system library and declared in a project's app.src is typically
available.

Ruby project dependency loading support coming soon.

### Installing Chef Server Plugins

If you wish to install Chef Server plugins with pre-downloaded or pre-built
binaries, set the corresponding attribute in your `config.yml` to true. 
The corresponding package needs to be either in `~/Downloads`, `../omnibus/pkg`,
or you can set an environment variable with the path to the package.

| Plugin Name | config.yml Attribute | Environment Variable |
| ------ | -------------------- | -------------------- |
| Chef Management Console | `chef-manage` | `MANAGE_PKG` |
| Push Jobs Server | `push-jobs-server` | `PUSH_JOBS_PKG` |
| Chef Reporting | `reporting` | `REPORTING_PKG` |

For example, this `config.yml` file created in the current directory would enable the Management console.

```
vm:
  plugins:
    chef-manage: true
```

### Configuring LDAP

If you wish to setup your Chef Server to use an external LDAP service, please set
`ldap start` to true in your config.yml. This LDAP server comes pre-configured
with two users: `child` and `douglas`. You can add more by adding more LDIF files
in the ldap-data directory of the provisioning cookbook.

_Note: The password should be the same as the username (for simplicity)_

### Setting up Chef Backend

If you wish to setup a development environment that is a 1 frontend, 1 backend
HA topology, set `chef-backend start` to true in your config.yml. _Warning: Chef Backend
is not compatible with the Push Jobs Server, Chef Reporting or LDAP DVM configurations._

### Installer Options

If you have a package at a non-default location (defaults are `../omnibus/pkg` and this directory),
you can specify it with the $INSTALLER variable. Also, you can automate the selection of which build
to use with $AUTOPACKAGE. So, to automatically select a custom package, set $INSTALLER to it's path
and $AUTOPACKAGE to 1.

### Multiple vms

If you are fortunate enough to have a host beefy enough to run
multiple VMs you will hit a snag; the 'cinc-server' VM name is
global, and there can only be one. To use a different name, set the
environment variable export VAGRANT\_MACHINE\_VARIANT to add a suffix
to the vm names.

Example:
```
export VAGRANT_MACHINE_VARIANT='1'
```

### Coverage Analysis

Erlang has built-in support for code coverage analaysis which will
evaluate how often each line of code in erlang modules is hit.  To enable this
for a full project, use:

    dvm cover PROJECT enable

To enable it for a specific module, use:

    dvm cover PROJECT enable MODULE_NAME

To reset coverage stats for one or all modules:

    dvm cover PROJECT reset [MODULE_NAME]

To write coverage results to file (cinc-server/testdata/coverage) use:

    dvm cover PROJECT report [MODULE_NAME]

And finally to disable coverage and re-enable automatic code sync:

    dvm cover PROJECT disable

Note that enabling cover will disable automatic compile and load of changed
modules, and disabling it will turn that back on.

## Troubleshooting

If you see something like the following, or ever have trouble with Vagrant while running `./sync`:

```
Files Transferred: 0
         Next Sync: 0 seconds...Bad port '-o'force_available_locales will default to true in the future. If you really want to skip validation of your locale you can set I18n.enforce_available_locales =rsync: connection unexpectedly closed (0 bytes received so far) [sender]
rsync error: error in rsync protocol data stream (code 12) at /SourceCache/rsync/rsync-45/rsync/io.c(453) [sender=2.6.9]

It appears that you've ran a newer version of Vagrant on this
computer. Unfortunately, newer versions of Vagrant change internal
directory layouts that cause older versions to break. This version
of Vagrant cannot properly run.

If you'd like to start from a clean state, please remove the
Vagrant state directory: /Users/tyler/.vagrant.d

Warning that this will remove all your boxes and potentially corrupt
existing Vagrant environments that were running based on the future
version.
```

It might be because ruby is picking up the ChefDK version of Vagrant instead of the one you normally use. For example:

```
which vagrant
/usr/local/bin/vagrant
++> irb
`irb(main):001:0> `which vagrant`
=> "/opt/chefdk/embedded/bin/vagrant\n"
```

You can tell `./sync` what Vagrant to use by setting `$VAGRANT_PATH` like so:

```
export VAGRANT_PATH=/usr/local/bin/vagrant
```

## Chef Mover

`chef-mover` does not currently support hot code loading. You can use it, but you have
to interact with it a bit differently. To start it, run:

```
dvm load chef-mover
dvm start chef-mover
```

This will start it up, but if you make any changes, you will need to reload the application, like:

```
dvm load chef-mover --force
dvm start chef-mover
```

Then the new code will be loaded.

## Not So Quick Start

TODO: details of components, terminology, etc. explore more dvm
commands?

## Test Data

[pending] If you want to load in test users, orgs, and nodes for testing outside
of pedant, you can:

`dvm populate`

TODO: Provide a canned set of test data in ec-backup form for more thorough tests?
##  dvm

At the heart of all this is the 'dvm' tool.  This tool
is used to manage the environment from within
the vm.  It must always be run as root, and to be sure that the
environment is correct, use `sudo -i` to become root to run it.

The intention here was to create a simple way to do all the
common activities:

* load a project
* run a test suite or subset thereof
* run a project and/or start a loaded service
* open a console to a running erlang app
* etop a running erlang app
* access the DB for a project

And a few other things.  You can just use `dvm` by itself and a list of
commands will be generated. You may also want to take a look in
defaults.yml, in which project definitions and other things are set up.

# Using external databases

To use an external database for Chef Server (and Reporting), create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:

```
vm:
  postgresql:
    start: true
    use-external: true
```

To use an external Azure database for Chef Server, create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:

```
vm:
  postgresql:
    start: true
    use-external: true
    use-azure:    true
    ip-azure:     <AZURE POSTGRESQL IP ADDRESS>
```

To use separate external databases for Chef Server and Chef Reporting, create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:

```
vm:
  postgresql:
    start: true
    use-external: true
  reporting_postgresql:
    start: true
    use-external: true
```
# Using elasticsearch 

To create a separate elasticsearch vm create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:
```
  elasticsearch:
    start: true
    # The major version family to use - either "2" or "5".
    version: "5"
```
# Using external solr 

To create a separate solr vm create a `config.yml` file with the following contents:
```
  external_solr:
    start: true
```
